# Intro to the project

Okay, I'm just gonna jump right in, this is a devlog that will chronicle my journey to create a [Castle of the Winds](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Castle_of_the_Winds) clone to try to learn game development. I doubt anyone will ever read this, but if you are here, welcome! I hope it helps you somehow.

## What is Castle of the Winds?
Castle of the Winds is an RPG that was developed by Rick Saada in 1989. It also happens to be the first RPG I ever played when I was about 5 years old, and probably the first game that got me interested in gaming. It's a pretty standard dungeon crawler with procedurally generated descending dungeon levels, and it allows saving. There's a variety of items, spells, monsters, and traps and something of a story based on Norse mythology. It is currently available as [freeware](http://lkbm.ecritters.biz/cotw/download.html) BUT it only runs on Windows 3.1 so you'll need some sort of emulator to play it.

## Why am I doing this?
Of course, my goal will be to make a version that can run on, at the very least, Windows 11 (my current OS). This should make it a lot easier to set up and play, which is a plus. However, my main goal is to learn and with that there are a few reasons I'd like to remake this game in particular:

* Coming up with your own game is really hard, and I keep spending more time working on ideas and mechanics than actually coding. That said, I DO want to make my own games at some point, that's just not the goal of THIS particular exercise
* This game feels simple enough that this project is tractable (though I will probably end up finding a ton of challenges later on)
* I'm very familiar with this game, since I keep playing it for nostalgia every few years for some reason
* The art resources are available as part of the freeware, and I can't draw

## HOW am I doing this?
I'm going to be writing this devlog AS I write the code, so I might end up completely changing my plan at some point but for the moment, here's what I'm planning on using:

* [MonoGame](https://monogame.net/) as my framework. The reason for this is that C# is the language I know best, so I could either go with Unity, MonoGame, or completely from scratch. Unity felt like overkill for this particular project and I also kind of like the idea of handling more of the code myself. On the other hand, I tried learning rendering using OpenGL once and almost died. So, MonoGame is a nice happy medium that will handle my game loop and rendering and I will do everything else myself.
* [Tiled](https://www.mapeditor.org/) for mapmaking, which is probably the first thing I will get into in my next post, at which point you will see why I'm using this if you aren't familiar.

And that's enough intro for now! Let's do some stuff.
